# Introduction

Thermal imaging is a powerful measurement technique to characterize the physical
surface of airless bodies. Recently, the analysis of thermal images from the
Thermal infrared imager (TIR) on-board the Hayabusa spacecraft, revealed the
highly porous nature of the C-type asteroid 162173 Ryugu [9]. The upcoming HERA
mission by ESA in 2024 will be the next small body mission equipped with a TIR
instrument. Compared to Hayabusa, it will have better coverage of the asteroid
surface.

The target of the HERA mission is asteroid 65803 or Didymos (1996 GT), an
Apollo-type near-Earth object (NEO). It is a binary asteroid: the primary body,
Didymos, has a diameter of 775 m and a rotation period of 2.26 hours, whereas
the secondary body, Dimorphos, has a diameter of 165 m and orbits the primary at
a distance of 1.2 km in about 12 hours. The HERA observations will focus mainly
on Dimorphos which is the target of NASAâ€™s Dart impactor mission. Modelling of
the thermal state of the surface of Dimorphos is important to define the TIR
instrument requirements, for the planning of scientific operations, to predict
the environmental conditions for surface landers.

The thermophysical properties of the surface layer govern the exchange of
radiative energy between the asteroid and its environment, which drives the
surface and subsurface temperature. Important properties include grain size,
porosity, and packing of the surface material. Measuring the temperature of the
asteroid allows to estimate the thermal inertia of its surface, providing
constraints on these parameters. Diurnal temperature changes are larger on fine
soils (e.g. sand and highly porous rock) with lower thermal inertia, and smaller
for dense rock with higher thermal inertia.

Here, we present a thermophysical model of the Dimorphos system, which includes
two bodies and considers the obliquity of their spin axes. The model is used to
predict surface temperature depending on the thermal inertia.

The study will be used to set performance requirements for the HERA thermal
imager. The instrument will operate in the 8-14 $\mu$ m wavelength range. It
will be used for scientific analysis and to demonstrate the feasibility of using
a TIR camera for GNC (Guidance, navigation and control). The main scientific
goal is to determine the thermal inertia product and thus the properties of the
(sub-)surface material.
